---
title: "YouTube Global Data Analysis"
slug: Data science
category: projects
summary:
description:
cover:
  image: "images/youtube.png" 
  alt: "YouTube Global Data Analysis:"
  caption:
  relative: true
showtoc: true
draft: false
---

# Project Description

In this project, I dove deep into YouTube's vast global dataset to uncover trends and insights that shape the platform’s success across continents. By leveraging a comprehensive dataset from `Kaggle` , I explored key metrics like uploads, views, subscriber counts, and estimated earnings, transforming raw data into actionable insights.

- Continental Insights: I aggregated data to compare YouTube's performance across continents, analyzing total subscribers, uploads, views, earnings, and the number of active content creators per region. This helped highlight regional disparities and dominant markets.

- Revenue Analysis: I calculated the percentage of global YouTube earnings generated by each continent and ranked the top 8 countries driving the highest revenue—showing that countries like the US, India, and Brazil are major players in YouTube’s revenue ecosystem.

- Top Content Categories: I identified the top 8 YouTube channel types by views, revealing which content types dominate the platform and attract the most global attention. This analysis could guide content creators and businesses in targeting high-demand categories.

- Tech Stack:

  - Data Querying: Built complex `SQL` queries using `MySQL` to structure and process large datasets.
  - Visualization: Crafted interactive Power BI dashboards to visually present the findings, making data easier to digest and showcasing patterns at a glance.

This project demonstrates my ability to handle big data, extract meaningful business insights, and transform those insights into visually compelling presentations that drive strategic decision-making. My work in data-driven storytelling positions me as a valuable asset for any organization looking to leverage data for growth.



[Github Link](https://github.com/The-alpha-male/Youtube-data-analysis.git)
